README.md, before:

<div align="center">

<h1>SIFU: Side-view Conditioned Implicit Function for Real-world Usable Clothed Human Reconstruction</h1>

<div>
    <a href="https://river-zhang.github.io/zechuanzhang//" target="_blank">Zechuan Zhang</a>&emsp;
    <a href="https://z-x-yang.github.io/" target="_blank">Zongxin Yang✉</a>&emsp;
    <a href="https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=RMSuNFwAAAAJ&hl=zh-CN&oi=ao" target="_blank">Yi Yang</a>&emsp;
</div>
<div>
    ReLER, CCAI, Zhejiang University
</div>
<div>
     <sup>✉</sup>Corresponding Author
</div>
<div>
    <a href="https://river-zhang.github.io/SIFU-projectpage/" target="_blank">CVPR 2024 Highlight</a>
</div>


<div style="width: 80%; text-align: center; margin:auto;">
    <img style="width:100%" src="docs/images/teaser.png">
    <em>Figure 1. With just a single image, SIFU is capable of reconstructing a high-quality 3D clothed human model, making it well-suited for practical applications such as 3D printing and scene creation. At the heart of SIFU is a novel Side-view Conditioned Implicit Function, which is key to enhancing feature extraction and geometric precision. Furthermore, SIFU introduces a 3D Consistent Texture Refinement process, greatly improving texture quality and facilitating texture editing with the help of text-to-image diffusion models. Notably proficient in dealing with complex poses and loose clothing, SIFU stands out as an ideal solution for real-world applications.</em>
</div>

:open_book: For more visual results, go checkout our <a href="https://river-zhang.github.io/SIFU-projectpage/" target="_blank">project page</a>

This repository will contain the official implementation of _SIFU_.



<div align="left">



# News 
- **[2024/6/18]** Due to visa check problem, the author can not come to the conference center in person. We are sorry about this [sad][cry].
- **[2024/4/5]** Our paper has been accepted as **Highlight** (Top 11.9% of accepted papers)!
- **[2024/2/28]** We release the code of **geometry reconstruction**, including test and inference.
- **[2024/2/27]** SIFU has been accepted by **CVPR 2024**! See you in Seattle!
- **[2023/12/13]** We release the paper on [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.06704).
- **[2023/12/10]** We build the [Project Page](https://river-zhang.github.io/SIFU-projectpage/).

# Installation
- Ubuntu 20 / 18
- **CUDA=11.6 or 11.7 or 11.8, GPU Memory > 16GB**
- Python = 3.8
- PyTorch = 1.13.0 (official [Get Started](https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/))

We thank @[levnikolaevich](https://github.com/levnikolaevich) and @[GuangtaoLyu](https://github.com/GuangtaoLyu) for provide valuable advice on the installation steps.


If you don't have conda or miniconda, please install that first:
```bash
sudo apt-get update && \
sudo apt-get upgrade -y && \
sudo apt-get install unzip libeigen3-dev ffmpeg build-essential nvidia-cuda-toolkit

mkdir -p ~/miniconda3 && \
wget https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh -O ~/miniconda3/miniconda.sh && \
bash ~/miniconda3/miniconda.sh -b -u -p ~/miniconda3 && \
rm -rf ~/miniconda3/miniconda.sh && \
~/miniconda3/bin/conda init bash && \
~/miniconda3/bin/conda init zsh

```


```bash
# close and reopen the shell
git clone https://github.com/River-Zhang/SIFU.git
sudo apt-get install libeigen3-dev ffmpeg
cd SIFU
conda env create -f environment.yaml
conda activate sifu
pip install -r requirements.txt

```


Please download the [checkpoint (google drive)](https://drive.google.com/file/d/13rNSmQI_VaMtwlMBSUaxEGybzJEl5KTi/view?usp=sharing) and place them in ./data/ckpt

Please follow [ICON](https://github.com/YuliangXiu/ICON/blob/master/docs/installation.md) to download the extra data, such as HPS and SMPL (using ```fetch_hps.sh``` and ```fetch_data.sh```). There may be missing files about SMPL, and you can download from [here](https://huggingface.co/lilpotat/pytorch3d/tree/main/smpl_data) and put them in /data/smpl_related/smpl_data/.


# Inference


```bash


python -m apps.infer -cfg ./configs/sifu.yaml -gpu 0 -in_dir ./examples -out_dir ./results -loop_smpl 100 -loop_cloth 200 -hps_type pixie

```

# Testing

```bash
# 1. Register at http://icon.is.tue.mpg.de/ or https://cape.is.tue.mpg.de/
# 2. Download CAPE testset
bash fetch_cape.sh 

# evaluation
python -m apps.train -cfg ./configs/train/sifu.yaml -test

# TIP: the default "mcube_res" is 256 in apps/train.
```



# Applications of SIFU

## Scene Building

![Scene](/docs/images/scene1.gif)

## 3D Printing

![3D](/docs/images/3Dprinting.png)

## Texture Editing

![editing](/docs/images/texture_edit.png)

## Animation

![animation](/docs/images/animation1.gif)

## In-the-wild Reconstruction

![in-the-wild](/docs/images/qualitative_results.png)



# Bibtex
If this work is helpful for your research, please consider citing the following BibTeX entry.

```
@InProceedings{Zhang_2024_CVPR,
    author    = {Zhang, Zechuan and Yang, Zongxin and Yang, Yi},
    title     = {SIFU: Side-view Conditioned Implicit Function for Real-world Usable Clothed Human Reconstruction},
    booktitle = {Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR)},
    month     = {June},
    year      = {2024},
    pages     = {9936-9947}
}
```

Commit message:

update texture refinement module download

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

<h1>SIFU: Side-view Conditioned Implicit Function for Real-world Usable Clothed Human Reconstruction</h1>

<div>
    <a href="https://river-zhang.github.io/zechuanzhang//" target="_blank">Zechuan Zhang</a>&emsp;
    <a href="https://z-x-yang.github.io/" target="_blank">Zongxin Yang✉</a>&emsp;
    <a href="https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=RMSuNFwAAAAJ&hl=zh-CN&oi=ao" target="_blank">Yi Yang</a>&emsp;
</div>
<div>
    ReLER, CCAI, Zhejiang University
</div>
<div>
     <sup>✉</sup>Corresponding Author
</div>
<div>
    <a href="https://river-zhang.github.io/SIFU-projectpage/" target="_blank">CVPR 2024 Highlight</a>
</div>


<div style="width: 80%; text-align: center; margin:auto;">
    <img style="width:100%" src="docs/images/teaser.png">
    <em>Figure 1. With just a single image, SIFU is capable of reconstructing a high-quality 3D clothed human model, making it well-suited for practical applications such as 3D printing and scene creation. At the heart of SIFU is a novel Side-view Conditioned Implicit Function, which is key to enhancing feature extraction and geometric precision. Furthermore, SIFU introduces a 3D Consistent Texture Refinement process, greatly improving texture quality and facilitating texture editing with the help of text-to-image diffusion models. Notably proficient in dealing with complex poses and loose clothing, SIFU stands out as an ideal solution for real-world applications.</em>
</div>

:open_book: For more visual results, go checkout our <a href="https://river-zhang.github.io/SIFU-projectpage/" target="_blank">project page</a>

This repository will contain the official implementation of _SIFU_.



<div align="left">



# News 
- **[2024/6/18]** Due to visa check problem, the author can not come to the conference center in person. We are sorry about this [sad][cry].
- **[2024/4/5]** Our paper has been accepted as **Highlight** (Top 11.9% of accepted papers)!
- **[2024/2/28]** We release the code of **geometry reconstruction**, including test and inference.
- **[2024/2/27]** SIFU has been accepted by **CVPR 2024**! See you in Seattle!
- **[2023/12/13]** We release the paper on [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.06704).
- **[2023/12/10]** We build the [Project Page](https://river-zhang.github.io/SIFU-projectpage/).

# Installation
- Ubuntu 20 / 18
- **CUDA=11.6 or 11.7 or 11.8, GPU Memory > 16GB**
- Python = 3.8
- PyTorch = 1.13.0 (official [Get Started](https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/))

We thank @[levnikolaevich](https://github.com/levnikolaevich) and @[GuangtaoLyu](https://github.com/GuangtaoLyu) for provide valuable advice on the installation steps.


If you don't have conda or miniconda, please install that first:
```bash
sudo apt-get update && \
sudo apt-get upgrade -y && \
sudo apt-get install unzip libeigen3-dev ffmpeg build-essential nvidia-cuda-toolkit

mkdir -p ~/miniconda3 && \
wget https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh -O ~/miniconda3/miniconda.sh && \
bash ~/miniconda3/miniconda.sh -b -u -p ~/miniconda3 && \
rm -rf ~/miniconda3/miniconda.sh && \
~/miniconda3/bin/conda init bash && \
~/miniconda3/bin/conda init zsh

```


```bash
# close and reopen the shell
git clone https://github.com/River-Zhang/SIFU.git
sudo apt-get install libeigen3-dev ffmpeg
cd SIFU
conda env create -f environment.yaml
conda activate sifu
pip install -r requirements.txt

```


Please download the [checkpoint (google drive)](https://drive.google.com/file/d/13rNSmQI_VaMtwlMBSUaxEGybzJEl5KTi/view?usp=sharing) and place them in ./data/ckpt

Please follow [ICON](https://github.com/YuliangXiu/ICON/blob/master/docs/installation.md) to download the extra data, such as HPS and SMPL (using ```fetch_hps.sh``` and ```fetch_data.sh```). There may be missing files about SMPL, and you can download from [here](https://huggingface.co/lilpotat/pytorch3d/tree/main/smpl_data) and put them in /data/smpl_related/smpl_data/.


# Inference


```bash


python -m apps.infer -cfg ./configs/sifu.yaml -gpu 0 -in_dir ./examples -out_dir ./results -loop_smpl 100 -loop_cloth 200 -hps_type pixie

```

# Testing

```bash
# 1. Register at http://icon.is.tue.mpg.de/ or https://cape.is.tue.mpg.de/
# 2. Download CAPE testset
bash fetch_cape.sh 

# evaluation
python -m apps.train -cfg ./configs/train/sifu.yaml -test

# TIP: the default "mcube_res" is 256 in apps/train.
```

# Texture Refinement Module

The code is available for download on [google drive](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1GOpo8enZTWsaWMn_liPnPNmkaUeNsqJk/view?usp=sharing). Please note that the current code structure may not be well-organized and may require some time to set up the environment. The author plans to reorganize it at their earliest convenience.


# Applications of SIFU

## Scene Building

![Scene](/docs/images/scene1.gif)

## 3D Printing

![3D](/docs/images/3Dprinting.png)

## Texture Editing

![editing](/docs/images/texture_edit.png)

## Animation

![animation](/docs/images/animation1.gif)

## In-the-wild Reconstruction

![in-the-wild](/docs/images/qualitative_results.png)



# Bibtex
If this work is helpful for your research, please consider citing the following BibTeX entry.

```
@InProceedings{Zhang_2024_CVPR,
    author    = {Zhang, Zechuan and Yang, Zongxin and Yang, Yi},
    title     = {SIFU: Side-view Conditioned Implicit Function for Real-world Usable Clothed Human Reconstruction},
    booktitle = {Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR)},
    month     = {June},
    year      = {2024},
    pages     = {9936-9947}
}
```
